---
title: "AWS EKS clusters in Terraform"
date: 2023-01-26
url: /a1/
author: "Marek Konieczny"
description: "Short howto start EKS cluster using Terraform with IAM restrictions"
summary: "Short howto start EKS cluster using Terraform with IAM restrictions"
cover:
    image: "/a1.png"
    alt: "EKS with Terrafrom"
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: "https://github.com/marekko/aws-knol-academy-eks-terraform"
    Text: "GitHub repository"
    appendFilePath: false 


---

## Costs in EKS


Cost control is one of the main issues when students want to use the AWS Academy Learners lab. In addition, it is crucial when you are using Service Mesh or Kubernetes during classes. It is because the resources utilized by the services are costly and sometimes complex.

The pricing schema for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) is based on the following factors:
- Number of worker nodes: You pay for the number of worker nodes that you have running in your EKS cluster, regardless of whether they are being used or not.
- Kubernetes API requests: You pay for the number of Kubernetes API requests that are made to the cluster. This includes things like scaling up or down a deployment, creating or deleting a pod, and checking the status of a deployment. Also, all internal API calls are included here.
- Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes: If you use EBS volumes for storage in your EKS cluster, you will pay for those volumes' storage and I/O usage.
- Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) usage: If you use ELB to load balance traffic to your EKS cluster, you will pay for the traffic  sent through the load balancer.
- Amazon CloudWatch Logs: If you use Amazon CloudWatch Logs to monitor your EKS cluster, you will pay for the data that is stored in CloudWatch Logs and for the data that is transferred out of CloudWatch Logs.

It's also worth noting that you will be charged for the underlying EC2 instances, VPC, and other AWS resources that are used by the EKS cluster. As EC2 instances are safe here because the Vocareum services control their lifespan, controlling remaining resources is required.

That is why building infrastructure and controlling it in Infrastructure as Code in a declarative manner is the best approach. 

I have created Terraform scripts to simplify this process with constraints enforced by AWS Academy environment. The  IAM role control limitations are the root cause of the restrictions. 

## Customization

First you need to install Terafform and AWS CLI toolkit in your machine. 

- In main.tf file provide the name for your cluster

```
locals {
  cluster_name = "YOUR-CLUSTER-NAME-${random_string.suffix.result}"
}

```

- In variables.tf provide the necessary credentials from Vocareum service. Also, provide the ARN for the LabRole from AWS Console.

```
variable "role_arn" {
  description = "AWS Lab Role ARN"
  type        = string
  default     = "<LabRole>"
}

```

- Finally, you can customize your cluster by modifying eks-cluster.tf parameters

```
    two = {
      name = "node-group-2"
      instance_types = ["t3.medium"]

      min_size     = 1
      max_size     = 2
      desired_size = 1
```

Next, you can deploy the cluster on AWS Academy infrastructure.

## Resources

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/marekko/aws-knol-academy-eks-terraform)
